.TH "CPFOS PKGTOOLS" "8" "16 October 2007" "cpfos pkgtools" "System"
.SH "NAME"
.B cpkg
.sp
.B ipkg
.RI  pkgfile
.BR 
.sp
.B rpkg
.RI  pkg
.BR 
.sp
.B upkg
.BR 
.sp
.B spkg
.RI key
.BR
.sp
.B cpfos
.RI command
.RI [parameter]
.BR
.sp
.B s2hinf
.RI pkgfile
.BR
.sp
.SH "INTRODUCTION"
This file is for both, administrators/users and package maintainers.
It describes how to use
.B cpfos
and it also describes how the ports/package system works. The terms port and package are
considered mostly equivalent in this manual page (a package is a compiled port).
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B cpfos
is the major tool of the Hardened Linux package system. You should always use it since it checks provided command-line parameters and then calls all other tools. Some tools (e.g. spkg and upkg) will only work if called by
.B cpfos
or if you export some shell variables by hand.
Valid
.RI commands
are
.RI install
.RI remove
.RI update
.RI search
and
.RI create.
Parameters are equal to the sub commands (
.B ipkg
and the like) called.
.B s2hinf
creates output needed for the cpfos package file based on a Slackware package file. The name of the file must be given as first parameter.
.B cpkg
is used to create a package based on the information in a
.RI pkginf
file. The
.RI pkginf
file must be in the current working directory. Moreover, all needed patches must be located in the current working directory. You can use
.B cpkg
in all directories of the ports of the Hardened Linux subversion repository.
.BR
.sp
.B ipkg
installs the package
.RI pkg
on the system. It also checks if a package is already installed. If new versions of existing configuration files are part of a new installed package,
.B ipkg
asks you if you want to keep your current configuration file or if you want to replace the current file with the new one. You can also view the differences if desired.
.BR
.sp
.B rpkg
removes the package
.RI pkg
from the system (including the configuration files and the package cache information).
.BR
.sp
.B spkg
searches the package master file (called
.RI pkgfile
) for a given keyword (
.RI key
). This means that the keyword can either be (part of) the packages name or it can be (part of) the short description of a package.
.BR
.sp
.B upkg
searches for a checked-out subversion repository on your system. It
will then sync this repository with our subversion server and
looks for updates of your installation. It will ask if you if you
want to install the available updates on your system.
It updates the package system by removing the package from the package
cache directory. After this task is completed, it calls
.B ipkg
to install the new versions of the packages.
.SH PKGINF
A pkginf file is needed for every port to compile and for every package
to install, check, modify and remove it. Every package includes this
file in the directory
.RI ./install
and every port also includes this file.
.BR
.sp
A pkginf file includes the following lines:
.BR
.sp
.B %md5sum
- This is the md5sum of the archive file of the port. This line is
recommended and is always needed if an archive needs to be downloaded (ALERT: legacy MD5!).
.BR
.sp
.B %name
- The ports name.
.BR
.sp
.B %version
- The version of this port.
.BR
.sp
.B %build
- The build number of the port.
.BR
.sp
.B %arcname
- The name of the archive to download (if not found in the
current working directoy) and the file the md5sum is compared with.
This is only needed if the archive file is not part of the repository.
It is recommended to use
.B %arcname
instead of placing archives directly in the repository to prevent
huge repository checkouts and a waste of space and traffic on the
server.
.BR
.sp
.B %url
- A optional url to download the archive from (if not found in the
current working directory). Multiple %url lines are valid and useful
because if one of the URLs does not work,
.B cpkg
tries the next one. If no %url lines are given,
.B cpkg
will be unable to download the archive
file.
.BR
.sp
.B %definst
- If set to "yes", this package is part of the default installation.
.BR
.sp
.B %deps
- A list of dependencies of this package. "none" means that this
package only depends on packages of the default installation.
.BR
.sp
.B %maintainers
- A list of maintainers of this package or just "HLCoreDev" if
there is no special maintainer besides of the HL core team.
.BR
.sp
.B %todo
- One optional line defining the things that are needed to do for this
port.
.BR
.sp
.B %description
- A short (one line) description of the port.
.BR
.sp
.B %changelog
- Start of the changelog. All following lines are part of the changelog.
This means that the %changelog entry always has to be at the end of a
.RI pkginf
file. The changelog may NOT contain special lines like
.B %description
and the like.
.SH "PACKAGE CACHE"
The package cache directory is
.RI /var/cache/packages
and includes all pkginf files of every installed package (it is the job
of
.B ipkg
do place this files there). It also includes a file that contains the
list of installed files of a package to make it possibly for
.B rpkg
to remove all files of a package.
.SH "HISTORY"
.B pkgtools
were written by Steffen Wendzel for the Hardened Linux Distribution in
Summer/Autumn 2007.
